---
layout: post
title:  "CakesFW: ARM11 Module Implementation"
date:   2015-08-20 14:52:37
tags:   CTR, Essay
---
#Introduction
Module is similar to plugin (e.g. In PSP, CFWs uses modules as plugins) .
ARM11 module implementation allows the CFW to add many features as users want.
Some CFW has already implemented several features on ARM11, but they are often
unnecessary for most users. The modularization keeps both of the simplicity
and extensibility.

The module loader is something like kernel. It manages loaded properties on
the environment.

#Implementation
CakesFW has DHS, something kind of debugger running on ARM11. The module loader
will be implemented in the same way.

##Module Loader
The module loader loads ELFs. The loader should take advantage of the format.

###Features
The module loader supports several (unique) features.

####Relocator
The module loader relocates ELFs statically and allows to run plugins
in the best condition.

####Dynamic Linker
The dynamic linker enables to share functions and save memory. It also enables
to share handlers, which is the most essential part of the module loader.
(e.g. NTR CFW implements its own dynamic linker, but it's different from the
generic format)

#####Preinstalled functions
The module loader has the following functions. They are available via dynamic
linking.

* cakeLoadExec

cakeLoadExec loads and executes a new module. This function will be used by
init.elf, which I'll explain later.

* \_\_service\_ptr

\_\_service\_ptr is a variable and compatible with ctrulib. It provides service
handlers.

###Limitation
The modules should be loaded memory aligned with 64KB. The restriction can be
removed, but 3DS may be able to map memory at aligned virtual addresses.
(I'm not sure that because I'm noob at 3DS.)

##init.elf
The module loader loads init.elf when it boots. init.elf is responsible
to load other modules. init.elf reads its configuration file and loads modules.
